It's kind of painful - in a small way - when, out of nowhere, you have a 'good day'.
Because usually, you haven't necessarily behaved any better.

You haven't achieved more.
It's just that, for instance, when you manage to do something you were supposed to, you don't instantly punish yourself for not doing a better job.
You don't immediately think about "I've barely scratched the surface of this pile of garbage" or "other people do stuff like this fifty times a day and don't break a sweat".
You just feel nice for having done something.

You haven't been kinder or more generous.
It's just that, when some person starts making small talk and giving you anxiety, you don't instantly wonder whether you're talking to them to escape your own work.
You don't think about how bored they must be, who they'd be better off speaking to.
Or why they're the kinds of people that make an effort, and you're the kind of person who sits hunched over a keyboard grimacing at the prospect.
You just feel nice because they talked to you, and you did your best to make them feel like their efforts were valued.

There isn't a material difference in those days.
Better things haven't happened to me, especially.
I left the house, sure. Maybe it's as simple as that.
But then, I did have to spend £50 on a laptop charger in stinky Currys because I stinky well left my stinky charger at Allana's like a doofus.
There was just as much negative self-talk outside the house as inside.
And I certainly haven't been taking care of myself.
I'm not exercising, and my relationship with alcohol has fallen to such fresh and exciting lows it's dancing the limbo with Satan.
The days are short. And the weather is shite.

It's just that some days are more gooder, and today was a more gooder day.
I hate it when people say 'all control is an illusion', because I have to control things all the fucking time, and frankly I'd rather not.
What made you so special, what unshackled you from the steering wheel?
But on a 'good day', those people do seem like they're onto something. They were probably happier to begin with, ha ha
