@document.meta
title: endeavouros_guide
description: 
authors: archan
categories: 
created: 2023-02-03
updated: 2023-02-03
version: 1.0.0
@end

* Answer 1
  - Boot from an EndeavourOS live ISO: Download the EndeavourOS ISO from the official website and burn it to a USB drive.
    Then, boot your laptop from the USB drive.
  - Wipe the SSD: In the EndeavourOS live environment, open a terminal and run the following commands to wipe your SSD:
  @code bash
  sudo lsblk
  @end
  This will display a list of your disk drives.
  Identify your SSD, then, run the following command to wipe the disk:
  @code bash
  /dev/sda
  sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda bs=1M status=progress
  @end

  - Create partitions: Use the cgdisk tool to create a new partition table on the wiped SSD.
    Create a root partition (/) of at least 30 GB and a boot partition (/) of at least 500 MB.
  - Format the partitions: Run the following commands to format the partitions:
  @code bash
  sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda1
  sudo mkfs.fat -F32 /dev/sda2
  @end

  - Mount the partitions: Run the following commands to mount the partitions:
  @code bash
  sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
  sudo mkdir /mnt/boot
  sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt/boot
  @end

  - Install EndeavourOS: Run the following command to install EndeavourOS:
  @code bash
  sudo endeavour-installer
  @end

  - Install AwesomeWM: After the EndeavourOS installation is complete, restart your laptop and log in. Then, run the following commands to install AwesomeWM:
  @code bash
  sudo pacman -S awesome
  @end

  - Set AwesomeWM as default: Run the following command to set AwesomeWM as your default window manager:
  @code bash
  echo "exec awesome" > ~/.xinitrc
  @end


* Answer 2
  - Use the cgdisk tool to create a new partition table on the disk. Create two partitions: one for / with a size of at least 30 GB, and one for /boot with a size of at least 500 MB. Make sure to set the boot partition as bootable.
  - Format the partitions:
  @code bash
  sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/nvme0n1p1
  sudo mkfs.fat -F32 /dev/nvme0n1p2
  @end

  - Mount the partitions:
  @code bash
  sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p1 /mnt
  sudo mkdir /mnt/boot
  sudo mount /dev/nvme0n1p2 /mnt/boot
  @end

  - Install EndeavourOS using the endeavour-installer command.
  - After the installation is complete, restart your computer and log in to your new EndeavourOS installation.
  - Install AwesomeWM by running:
  @code bash
  sudo pacman -S awesome
  @end

  - Set AwesomeWM as your default window manager by running 
  @code bash
  echo "exec awesome" > ~/.xinitrc
  @end

  - Restart your computer and log in to your new EndeavourOS installation with AwesomeWM.
