@document.meta
title: deep_learning_engineer
description: 
authors: squish
categories: 
created: 2023-04-17
updated: 2023-04-17
version: 1.0.0
@end

* Why did you choose to apply for this role?
  I recently finished my PhD having acquired a lot of skills that I am excited to put to work in a different context. In particular, I found a real love of coding for image analysis and had fun developing a hybrid SR-GAN for 3D microscope images. Applying calculus and statistics in conjunction with lateral thinking to solve real-world problems was exactly what I had in mind when I first pursued physics at the academic level, and working at Greyparrot as a deep learning engineer offers me the chance to do this while expanding and further developing my skillset.
  I'm also really excited about the work you do: your technology is an ingenious solution to the enormous problem of waste. I've long been intrigued by the circular economy -- we live under an economic system that insists on perpetual growth, so why not reduce the proportion of that growth that must be extracted, raw, from a world of finite resources? So many resources that can be reused and recycled rot in landfill. The importance that Greyparrot puts on transparency also appeals greatly to me -- a lack of transparency leads to a lack of outrage and reduces the demand for change that the planet sorely needs.
  While searching for my next challenge in deep learning and image processing, I was frustrated to find that a great number of available postings have been oriented around the development of invasive or destructive technologies. The thought of taking all of my training and specialist skills; all the work I have put in and the work that has been put into me, and mobilising it against the natural world and its people -- it was kind of horrifying. I couldn't believe my luck when I found your listing: here was exactly the kind of contribution I wanted to make in my career, and it demanded exactly the skillset that I have -- I simply had to apply!

* What isn't in your CV that you want us to know about you?
  I first learned Python in a slightly unusual context: my doctoral supervisor needed an extra teaching assistant for an introductory Python course she was teaching at King's College London, and I volunteered, not knowing any Python at the time. The learning materials were posted on the online portal the night before each lesson, so I would learn the material and teach it the following morning. I managed two groups of students, two of whom wrote to the department at the end of term to say how well I'd taught them. This is to say: I can learn new concepts very quickly and communicate them very effectively.
  I have spent my adult life following an academic career in the 'pure' sciences, believing that research for its own sake is a hugely noble undertaking. It came, at least in part, from a romanticisation of science, that there is nothing more magical or more human than the pursuit of truth. But much as I still believe this, I've since come to feel a greater sense of urgency in the work I do, and am keen to implement technologies that will be used directly for change, and not only for discovery. To my mind, there is no field of science that is more valuable or more worthwhile to work in than the science of sustainability, and deep learning evidently has a huge role to play in this sector, as it does in so many others. I'm passionate about sustainability and really enthusiastic about the work you do.

* What's your favourite fruit?
  In my heart of hearts I am a raspberries & blackberries person (I know that's two fruits, but in my defence they're not dissimilar). Obviously they are delicious, but it's also the fact that I've actually foraged and eaten them 'wild' that makes them special. I love oranges, but I've actually only ever seen them on a supermarket shelf. It elevates a fruit when you've found and picked it yourself before eating; it changes your relationship to it. Also, I'm cursed with an awful sweet tooth, and in the past I've used berries to wean myself off sugar, because they satisfy the craving but have a relatively low glycemic index -- so in a sense, I owe them my clean bill of health.
