@document.meta
title: 28
description: 
authors: archan
categories: 
created: 2022-11-23
updated: 2022-11-23
version: 0.0.17
@end

It's a cliche now for differently-abled people to characterise themselves as having 'superpowers'.
"My ADHD is a superpower", "my autism is a superpower", "my dyspraxia is a superpower", "my spinal cord injury is a superpower".
On the one hand, it's like when Tom Robinson (in To Kill a Mockingbird) secures his death warrant in court by admitting that the reason he went to help a young white woman with her chores free of charge is because he felt /sorry/ for her.
A lot of neurotypical people, who've derived a surprising amount of self-worth from the moral imperative to feel pity for the differently-abled, go absolutely rigid when they realise that those people are actually so well-adjusted, that *you* are the one missing out, and it's hard not to enjoy watching those gears turn.

On the other, it leads a lot of us down this lonely and painful path of trying to figure out what exactly the nature of our supposed superpowers are.
How has the pain of growing up in a world that is structurally unsound for our needs been useful to us?
Where is our payout?
What does it look like?
And when am I getting it?
Have I been getting it this whole time, but been too blind, or too self-pitying to see it?
Or am I one of the unlucky that doesn't get one?
Am I a bad spokesperson for this group because (aside from the fact that I'm still waiting on a full diagnosis, which I assume is also fairly common experience) I don't have the superpowers to sell our value?
Or is it more because I don't have the self-esteem to recognise that I've got any?

Over the lockdowns of 2020 and 2021, I felt that my superpowers as an ostensible autist had (finally) become more apparent: I was, unlike many others, absolutely fine.
Thriving, even. My mental health saw a stability it had never known. I was able to take care of myself, physically, mentally, with an ease I'd never experienced.
A lot of this is pure luck: I didn't suffer too badly from, or lose anyone close to, COVID-19. But this was true of many people I know who suffered terribly during that period.
I could exert unprecedented levels of control over my social space, because most of it happened on the phone.
I didn't get sensory overload, or need to anticipate the possibility of a panic attack, because I was never in a situation where a panic attack was a seriously frightening possibility.
I was happy, relaxed, and unafraid. I stopped drinking, I exercised, I reached out to people (all things I've struggled with in the past).
I'd finally found my way of living, my superpowers were undeniable.
I was the hikikomori with hobbies, friends, and a career.
The all-American survivalist, with all of the hyper-masculine isolationism but none of the insipid jingoism or any of the SAS skills (admittedly maybe a loss).
The zen neckbeard. The lonesome brocialist.
Affectionately blackpilled. Harmlessly toxic. Whatever.

I'd achieved the unachievable. But a study investigating the effects of social isolation due to lockdown and shielding on cognitive function found that I was getting dumber by the second.
Participants took little tests - memory, decision-making, time-estimation, and the ability to learn new things were all examined.
It was conducted on 342 people over 13 weeks, exams took place at 5 timepoints over this period.
People were at their worst-performing on all of these tests in the most isolating conditions.
A lot of people would call this predictable, but it tore at my little cape and dashed me into the plane engine.
So that sucks.
