@document.meta
title: citymapper
description: application for a citymapper job
authors: squish
categories: application
created: 2023-03-07
updated: 2023-03-09
version: 1.0.0
@end


Ishan
Costello
icostello@pm.me
07999717524

* Cover letter
"Ultimately we don’t have hard requirements beyond needing you to be smart, curious about public transport and the mobility industry and keen to get stuck in. However we are looking for candidates with some professional software engineering experience."
  - paragraph 1
  -- why I want the job
  -- what my usp is
  --- mold the language to the job posting they've put up (Y) -- i.e. map what they want against my skills/ experiences
  --- I believe my coding skills in X will make me a valuable asset to your team and help them do Y
  - paragraph 2
  -- elaborating on my experiences
  -- say what I want to learn, demonstrate my curiousness about what citymapper does and how they work, while alluding to details of their success as a company to demonstrate knowledge of them
  - paragraph 3
  -- talk about teaching, working in research teams, (blag it), talk about the technical skills I've built up out of interest

* Why Citymapper?
  I have used Citymapper since I first moved to London in 2013 from my home city of Brussels.
  Brussels has an exceptional public transport system that enabled me to have an enormous amount of independence from as young as 12.
  Without it, I would have been reliant on my parents, and my relationship with my city would have been mediated through them, as a dependent.
  When I moved to London, I was daunted -- it was a new country, in which I knew nobody, with such a very intricate transport system -- even having come from a capital city with its own complex network of trams, metros, and buses.
  The accessibility and comprehensiveness of the information presented by Citymapper quickly instilled in me that same sense of freedom, security, and power over my life that I had at home, which might otherwise have taken much longer to acquire.
  It also ultimately allowed me to loosen the vice-like grip that Google has over my personal data, allowing me to turn off location services.
  I have a fascination and deep love of public transport infrastructure for the freedom it's given me, and would be excited and proud to bring my skill-set to this area.
  My current strongest skills are in image processing and machine learning, however, I am keen to learn more, and Citymapper presents the possibility of growth under experienced developers.

* Share and tell us about a past project of which you're proud. (GitHub or web links a plus!)
  One component of my doctoral thesis was the development of a generative adversarial network for the augmentation of 3D microscope images by improving the sampling rate and resolution of the images.
  This is particularly tricky when compared with super-resolution GANs in many other areas: in many cases, the primary goal is to achieve a 'convincing' super-resolution image that meets certain aesthetic or correlatory criteria.
  GANs are particularly effective for meeting these criteria as the goal enforced by the training architecture is to convince a discriminative network that generated images are 'genuine'.
  However, in microscopy, the output images must be reliable sources of information (not just convincing ones).
  I am especially proud of this technology as several steps creative and thoughtful steps had to be taken to ensure this outcome.
  I would prefer not to go into the specifics or share my GitHub at this time as the technology has not yet been published, and adjustments may still be in the pipeline -- but I will be sure to share the paper once it is published, as well as make the repository public.

* How soon are you able to start and do you want to work remotely or in our office?
  I would be able to start in May, after I have had my PhD viva, and would prefer to work in a hybrid capacity (mostly remotely), as this would allow me some greater flexibility.
  Though I would like to be able to come to the office from time to time, hybrid working with more time away from the office enables greater flexibility in my working location which I have found to boost productivity.

* What's a little-known fact about your favourite transit system or city?
  This question seems to be searching for a trivia fact, maybe about which transit system is the oldest, or the extent of the natural tunnels beneath London that were used to build the tube, or the history of the London Post Office Railway whose tunnels and tube tracks still exist.
  But my favourite little-known trivia fact is about the accessibility of the Brussels transit system.
  When I lived there less than a decade ago, the price of a 'year pass' for all transit in the city (buses, metros, and trams) was halved whenever certain criteria were met -- for me, I got 50% off for living in a family of five or more and 50% off for going to a registered school.
  This resulted in a yearly pass cost of 80 euros, which was under £60 at the time -- for any and all public transit in town -- all of which ran on time and left nowhere in the city more than a 10 minute walk from a transit link.
  Even at full price, the year pass was around only £240.
  Facts about public transit accessibility excite me the most, because this is where its power lies.
  By shaping a people's relationship to their local geography, you shape their lives, and the city itself.

* Where did you hear about this role?
  Otta
