@document.meta
title: viva
description: 
authors: squish
categories: 
created: 2023-03-17
updated: 2023-03-19
version: 1.0.0
@end

* Susan's version of AFFIRM3D
** Questions:
   - they will probably ask me about implementation -- any guesses at what they might ask me wrt this?
   - noise
   - in the LossComputer() class, why did you multiply the highpass fourier loss by itself, twice?
   - in the figure, why is there a weird noise pattern
   - did you not apply a sampling window in the end? no
   - why are we taking the square root of the reconstruction? because the original import is squared to make them positive
   - the learning rate is 0.1, which is quite high -- was there a reason for this, or just trial and error?
   - what is the `save_thresholded_as_ply()` function?? you said it's a hack, how does it manage the background? The plotstuff() function seems to include this too, what is it?
** How it works differently (step by step):
   - it has a preliminary optimisation step?
   - it optimises the image directly, without using a discriminator?


* Sian Fake Viva
** Broadly
   - future work
   - prepare a powerpoint with all the figures for easy access, especially videos!
** Chapter 1 (Introduction)
   - Equation 1.4 -- parameters
   - Particle tracking with GANs -- how does it work? What components are needed?
** Chapter 2 (HAWKMAN)
   - Make sure you have cluster analysis knowledge: check Dylan's newest paper on cluster analysis
   - Figure 2.9 Make sure you have cluster analysis knowledge: check Dylan's newest paper on cluster analysis
** Chapter 4 (AFFIRM3D)
   - go through and look for things that are missing 
   -- make a diagram for the new architecture

* To Do list:
  ~ go through every metnion of HAWK and make sure you can explain how it works in full mathematical detail
  ~ chapter 4: check each figure and make sure you can explain what's happening in them
  ~ Go through Susan's code and make sure you understand what is happening
  ~ other chapters: check each figure and make sure you can explain what's happening in them
  ~ double-check the references, particularly in _Chapter 4_
  ~ check Dylan Owen's work and make a wee shortlist of stuff he might ask
  ~ check Virginie Uhlmann's work and make a wee shortlist of stuff she might ask
  ~ prepare a powerpoint with the figures

